mind your decisions I'm presto Walker in
rectangle ABCD side a B has a length
equal to 8 we will then construct two
circles in the interior of the rectangle
as shown one circle is tangent to sides
a b and bc the other circle is tangent
to sides ad and CD and the two circles
are tangent to each other we will then
construct EF that goes through the
tangent point between the two circles
suppose EF is parallel to the side a b
and EF is equal to 6 the question is
what is the length bc equal to I think
taka who's on Twitter at pan b TC who
created this puzzle pause the video if
you'd like to give this problem a try
and when you're ready keep watching to
learn how to solve this problem
[Music]
we will prove the rather fascinating
result that BC is always equal to nine
what's amazing is that BC is equal to
nine regardless of the sizes of the two
circles because EF is equal to six that
exactly specifies that BC is equal to
nine why is that the case let's first
review some concepts we'll go over the
perpendicular bisector of a chord and
the Centers of tangent circles first
let's go over the perpendicular bisector
of a chord suppose we have a circle with
a chord a B let's construct the
perpendicular bisector L it'll be
perpendicular and it'll bisect a B every
single point on L will be equidistant
from a and B this will also be true for
the center of the circle because the
center of the circle has the same
distance to the points a and B therefore
the perpendicular bisector of a chord
passes through a circle center now let's
review the Centers of tangent circles
suppose we have circles a and B that
meet at a tangent point T let's
construct the tangent line note that the
radius a T will be perpendicular to the
tangent line as will the radius B T
therefore ATB will be a straight line
the center's and the tangent point are
collinear this is true for both
externally and internally tangent
circles will use these facts to solve
the problem we will first write t for
the tangent point between the two
circles we will then construct the
perpendicular bisector of et and that
will contain the center of the top
circle we will then construct the
perpendicular bisector of TF and that
will contain the center of the bottom
circle let's now calculate the vertical
distance between the two diameters of
these two circles how can we do that
notice that et plus TF is equal to EF
this means half of et plus half of TF is
equal to half of EF therefore we have
the length of this vertical distance
will be equal to EF over two which is
equal to three now let's consider the
radius of the top circle suppose it as a
length equal to X and then the radius of
the bottom circle which has a length
equal to Y the vertical distance will be
X plus the distance between the two
centers plus y we thus have this is
equal to a B which is equal to eight so
we have X plus three plus y is equal to
eight if we subtract three from both
sides we get that X plus y is equal to
five from here let's move this vertical
distance over to the left this is
exactly equal to three we will then
construct the line that goes through the
two Centers of the two circles and the
tangent point this will have a length
equal to X plus y we just showed that X
plus y is equal to five we does have a
right triangle with a hypotenuse equal
to five and one leg equal to three we
can use the Gogu theorem to determine
the remaining leg is equal to four and
we had the famous Egyptian three four
five right triangle from here we'll
construct the horizontal distances
notice that we have a horizontal
distance of X here we then have a
horizontal distance of four between the
two centers and finally we have a
horizontal distance of Y and this
altogether will be equal to the length
of BC therefore BC is equal to X plus 4
plus y since X plus y is equal to five
we can simplify that this is equal to
four plus five thus BC is equal to nine
exactly and that's our answer what's
remarkable is that this is always our
answer because we have a 3 4 5 right
triangle that goes between the two
Centers of the two circles this exactly
determines that BC will always be equal
to 9 I find it fascinating that this
ancient Egyptian 3 4 5 right triangle
is the key to solving this problem
incredible thanks for making mind your
decisions one of the best channels on
YouTube as always thanks for watching
and thanks for your support